Ok so let's go ahead
and take a look
at break and continue
we can I am just
gonna go ahead and
reopened the chapter
because I have lefted
closed but anyway
I think it's gonna open
up the same product,
yeah get there we
go, gonna go ahead
and be kind enough to delete all of this
I don't think that we shall need to see
math either so let's
go ahead and delete
this is as well, anyway
sometimes we want to
stop the execution of the loop and start
the execution of the code after the loop
body, well we can achieve that by using break which
breaks out of the
loop so we'll
get to continue but
let's first deal
with break, you can get out of the loop
prematurely and go
to the next line of
code outside of the
loop, so go ahead and
enter some program I don't know, just for
just for demo purposes
int sum equals
equals zero and we're
gonna go ahead and
type int for, int, I equals 1, to 50 plus plus
int, number I'm sure we have
seen very similar example to this one
before, std, cout, colon
colon, enter number, -1
to end or 2 to exit.
it doesn't really
matter, it doesn't make
a difference at all
let's provide a way
for user to put it
on a number, std, colon colon,
number, and then down below
number. I'll explain in a
millisecond but let me go
ahead and write some of the code.
Sometimes I explained it as I write it,
sometimes I just
write what I've just
explained and sometimes
I just have it
written and then explained
this is gonna be the
last line so no worries
on what I do right now,
sum thank you very much.
Ok so, nothing
strange here we have
our standard loop
where you will iterate over 50 numbers
and we will prompt the user to enter
some sort of a number here or to enter
minus 1, 2 to go out of the
loop to end the program,
prematurely that
is. Anyway so it says
if number equals
two if the number is the same as minus
one and if this condition of evaluates the
true within the for
loop break statement
will execute meaning
that anything below
the break statement will not be taken
into consideration at, all which is
within the loop, it will go immediately
to the first line of code outside of the
loop and it will print out the Sum, but
until then it will just go ahead, unless
unless we type in -1
it will just go ahead
and keep on prompting
us for like 50
time is to enter a
number and for, you
know that number will
be added to itself
continuously added to itself because
every time we will enter some number and
that number will be added to the
previous some of the numbers that we
have added and we will
get the total sum
of all the numbers
that we have actually
imputed, if we want to exit before you
reach 50
before this condition
here becomes false
we can enter minus
one and be done with
it so let's go ahead and
build and run control+s
to save, yes, no
don't do that to me,
quick save
whatever yes, I would like to replace it
thank you. Now. what?
Ok so, once again I am
not as stupid as I look
and as I sound. You
build, run, oh this is interesting. Ok let's
go about it this way
build
click built, yes, I did,
Ok now that's right.
how are you do? why
are you doing this?
Ok must say I need
to figure this one
out let's figure
out what on earth
is going on. No I don't
need both points
there. I'm just
gonna go ahead and
control+c this, file,
new, project, now
actually I just go
ahead and close this,
delete this, in fact I'm gonna go
ahead and delete everything in this
chapter excellent. So now, I'm gonna open up the same project
it just won't have anything in it
open existing project,
oh actually I deleted
it sorry. We're just
gonna go ahead and say
new projects and yes, it's gonna be
console application on C++ and we shall
place it in desktop, so,
chapter four, loops. Ok
so this will be like I
should name it fix, next
finish
Oh my god it works! Only to
figure this out this is I'm doing
something incredibly
stupid on my own,
It just is not
occurring to me at
the moment. I'm sorry for that,
So let's go ahead and
type in number 10
in number 10 thats 20
and 11 thats 31 and
9 that's 40, that
should be better
to display into the
screen, so minus
once dominated, yeah,
there you go, 40 now I
really don't feel like
typing in all the fifty
numbers if you want feel free to do so
but I am not going to because it's 50
numbers and I really
don't feel like
typing in 15 numbers
anyway if you type
in -1, this condition will
evaluate to true and you shall have a
execution of the break
and then it will
go in immediately and
print out this out.
so once again in
summary, what is it
that we do? we use
a break when we
want to stop the execution of the loop
and now we will jump into continue, so
to continue is when we want to
skip one loop iteration or something
like that but I will go ahead
actually I'm gonna go
ahead and explain it
now or no, in the
next tutorial I don't
want to make this longer that I need to.
Anyway
break is used to break out of the loop
I don't know for whatever reason if
certain condition is met or if you want
to prematurely terminate the loop or
something like that in general what will
happen here is one more time
briefly execute
everything below the
break within the loop
until the closing
bracket will get a minute it will be
executed and it will decode program the
machine will go to the next line of code
below the for loop so far below
the loop in general, It
doesn't need to be a for
loop, it can be a while
loop it can be for each
loop it can be whatever
here you will be
able to use the break
statement in order
to break out of the loop. that's why it's
called break
and it will do whatever
it is down below
it won't just execute
one line it will
execute all the lines that are
below unless stated otherwise.
Anyway I bet you
farewell here and in the
follow tutorial we
will go into continue.